# Guidelines for Encoding Domain Labels in RDF Using in OntoLex
### Fahad Khan and Ana Salgado

## Domain Labels - An Introduction

Domain labels are tags associated with individual lexicographic articles or senses in a dictionary or similar lexicographic resource which indicate that a lexical unit or a specific sense belongs to a specialised domain, e.g., Sport or Medicine. Dictionary domain labels can be organised in terms of taxonomies or thesauri, something which makes the original resource easier to navigate and to integrate with other datasets. Such labels play an important role in many lexicographic resources but there hasn’t been much work on modelling these in linked data in a way that better exploits the possibilities of the Semantic Web stack. 

In progress

Applying a usage label to a lexical unit implies that it moves away ‘in a certain respect, from the main bulk of items described in a dictionary, and that its use is subject to some kind of restriction’ (Svensén, 2009, p. 313). The need to label certain deviations (e.g., when the language register is familiar) and restrictions (if a particular unit belongs to a domain field) originated in what is currently called marking or diasystematic marking (Hausmann, 1989, p. 651).
The domain labelling, a particular dictionary feature, takes our attention through this research. We focus on diatechnical information/marking which indicates that a given unit belongs to a particular domain. Bearing in mind that knowledge is complex, Sager (1990) states, ‘In practice, no individual or group of individuals possesses the whole structure of a community’s knowledge; conventionally, we divide knowledge up into subject areas, or disciplines, which is equivalent to defining subspaces of the knowledge space.’ (p. 16). In sum, a domain is a ‘field of special knowledge’ (ISO 1087, 2019, p. 1). This definition has the advantage of being transparent and sufficiently comprehensive.
In the universe of the labelling system commonly used in lexicography, the labels assigned to these specialised senses are called domain labels, which are defined as a ‘marker which identifies the specialised field of knowledge in which a lexical unit is mainly used’ (Salgado, Costa & Tasovac, 2019). These labels are used ‘para señalar el léxico temáticamente especializado, en contraposición al léxico común’ [to signal the thematically specialised lexicon in contrast to the common lexicon] (Estopà, 1998, p. 1) and are generally expressed in the form of abbreviations (remember the economy of space rationale in the paper format).
The designation domain label is not consensual. Atkins and Rundell (2008), referring to ‘linguistic labels’, classified specialised vocabulary as ‘domains’ (p. 182); they are termed ‘field labels’ according to Verkuyl, Janssen and Jansen (2003, p. 7), ‘marcas técnicas’ by Fajardo (1996/1997), ‘marca de materia’ (Martínez de Sousa, 1995), ‘marca terminológica’ in Lara (1997), ‘marcas temáticas’ in Estopà (1998), ‘field label’ (Hartmann & James, 1998/2002), ‘marca de especialidad’ (Nomdedeu Rull, 2008), or ‘diatechnical information/marking’ (Hausmann, 1989; Svensén, 2009). In our research framework, we prefer the term ‘domain label’ because it seems to be a transparent and recognisable designation for lexicographers, as well as a beacon for terminologists. Therefore, we use the term domain label to indicate abbreviations (e.g., Geol.) collected in our lexicographic corpus but also to mention the extensions of each of the abbreviations written in full, e.g. GEOLOGIA [GEOLOGY]).
Meanwhile, we must recognise that, in general dictionaries, the usage of domain labels is neither entirely satisfactory nor consistently efficacious as it is applied with subjective criteria. Assigning domain labels to lexical units has always been a challenging issue for any lexicographer. In addition to the domain label, linguistic formulae are used in the definitions, contexts and other indicators to point to specialised meanings. They are faced with difficult decisions such as: What domain label should be assigned to this specific specialised meaning? Should a domain label be assigned to a meaning that once was specialised, but nowadays belongs to the common knowledge? These are decisions that the lexicographer takes in a solitary way. 
Assuming that the unmarked lexicon belongs to the general lexicon, as we shall see, is a controversial matter. In fact, not every lexical unit that can be considered a term is marked. It is unclear if this is due to forgetfulness or if the lexicographer decided to apply different criteria. In most cases, we can only limit ourselves to making assumptions, given the lack of introductory and explanatory texts in the dictionary on the methodology and criteria that have been followed. On the other hand, by comparing different lexicographic resources, we identify imbalanced criteria for selecting domains. The coexistence of generic domains with smaller spectrum domains is one of the problems.


### Examples

## Relevant Semantic Web Vocabularies
## Ontolex-Lemon and Lexicog
## SKOS and SKOS-XL



